# Marketing-Analysis

## General Information

This project is personal analysis and there are some goals generated by myself: 

1. Exploratory Data Analysis
2. Statistical Analysis
3. Data Visualization
4. CMO Recommendations

The dataset is downloaded from website Kaggle labled Marketing Analysis.

Sources: https://www.kaggle.com/jackdaoud/marketing-data

## Technical Used

- Cleaning data & getting familiar with data: Python 3.9 (Jupyter Notebook)
- Analyzing statistical data: MySQL 8.0.26
- Data Visualization: Tableau Desktop / Tableau Public 2021.2

## Setup 

- To access all the files and run the code smoothly, it is recommended to clone or download by clicking "Clone or download" and you then should extract all of the files to the location you want to edit your code.

## Features
We start by cleaning our data. Tasks during this section include:

- Handling null values and outliers
- Transforming data
- Encoding Categorical Data

Once we have cleaned up our data a bit, we move the data exploration section. In this section we explore 3 high level business questions related to our data:

1. What factors are significantly related to the number of store purchases?
2. Find relationship between Amount spent in gold products and Store Purchases
3. Fish has Omega 3 fatty acids which are good for the brain. Accordingly, do "Married PhD candidates" have a significant relation with amount spent on fish? What other factors are significantly related to amount spent on fish?

After that, we move to data visualization section to answer these questions:
1. Which marketing campaign is most successful?
2. Which products are performing best?
3. Which channel is being underrated? 
4. What is the main customer that company is targetting? 
 
## Project Status
Project is completely done. 

